# What would it take to bring DH into a more global openness model?

When it comes to promoting the importance of open scholarship, Latin America and the Caribbean stand out in the sense that the concept of “openness” is generally accepted in the the region. Several nations, such as Peru, Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, have shown real advances in terms of national laws that seek to make knowledge produced with public funds a common good managed by the academic community. Regional projects such as Scielo and redalyc.org have played a unique role to make the scholarship published in Ibero American and Latin American journals available free of charge. Open access is now established in Latin America and the Caribbean as the most extended communication model in the academic community, giving visibility and value to scientific production at a regional and global level. 

Nevertheless, the question remains:  **to what extent has this acceptance of openness influenced the work of digital humanists in Latin America, the Caribbean, and beyond?** Much of the most well-known digital humanities (DH) work tends to focus myopically on projects coming out of North America and Western Europe. And despite efforts by groups such as [Global Outlook::Digital Humanities (GO::DH)](http://www.globaloutlookdh.org/) and the [Alliance of Digital Humanities Organisations](https://adho.org/), DH remains a very English-language-centric interdiscipline. 

**What would it take to bring DH into a more global openness model**, not only in terms of access but also in terms of methods, best practices and opportunities for collaboration? And what could this openness look like set against the backdrop of the long-standing and highly developed open access movement of Latin America and the Caribbean?

This workshop will analyse these challenges by highlighting existing initiatives and exploring options to advance open in DH in Latin America and the Caribbean. We will begin by examining national laws and specific case studies that illustrate the progress and challenges of open access as a movement in Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as the global context, including a practical approach to deal with the "different open accesses in the world." The workshop will then shift to focus on the ways these various infrastructures for open can be deployed to build a more globally open DH. 

Please join us for **Where is the Open in DH? on Tuesday 26, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.**, at the Empire Room A, Sheraton María Isabel Hotel, as part of the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations(ADHO) Conference, to be held in Mexico City, from June 26-29, 2018 (https://dh2018.adho.org/).

